(speaking in foreign language)
- Again, I restate our beautiful motivations,
and this motivation is the key,
what we want in the direction we like to do these practices.
We have the beautiful motivation.
Every practices, every listen to the teaching,
reflect on the teaching,
contemplate on the teaching,
meditate on the practice of the teaching,
it comes partly to the practice,
the arm and the benefit to our self,
and the benefit to all beings.
So therefore, motivation is so, so important,
as we all know that.
So again, in a way, reactivated with the motivation,
which is a joy and an application,
bodhicata and a purely understanding,
all the vegan organizations.
Those motivation, whatever kind of, strongly maintained
in the heart and mind,
and then we reflected on the teachings.
Again, this teaching, the teaching of his (speaking in foreign
language)
or the (speaking in foreign language)
teachings.
Teachings, and I'm going to go over this,
really, this teaching,
and which you all have I believe is focus, focus.
And now, here, we are talking,
in the third port line in this teaching,
to take the full advantage,
to take the full advantage of the life
that is so difficult to obtain,
and that what that means, take advantage,
because our life is in our hand,
our opportunity, particularly that we have to add freedoms,
entertain endowment or (speaking in foreign language)
Since we have that full,
we have that full, everything in our hand,
therefore, it's for that reason,
here, his (speaking in foreign language)
reminding that we should take full advantage,
take meaningful of our lives.
And now, I want to take the meaningful lives,
again, as I mentioned two days ago,
when we started thinking of the how many times
we already have time in one day, 24 hours.
So, take advantage means practicing,
practicing, so how much really we are practicing,
every thinking of the 24 hours,
how much we practice with good heart,
how many times we practice.
As I mentioned, those people who are on the retreat,
maybe they spending 70% or 80% or maybe 60%, 7%, 7%,
50% means how much, 12 hours in the day they practice.
That means practicing, whether they're meditating,
whether they're reciting or the sadhana practices.
Sadhana practices are more connected
with the Vedayana teachings.
Meditation is very popular teaching of the Buddhism,
all Buddhism, calm and abiding,
all vibhajana meditations.
Both are practices, both are culturing and restrengthening,
glorifying our inner qualities of the true natures.
So, 12 hours means really quite good, a lot of time.
That means 50% of the time of the 24 hours.
But every person, such as many of us,
maybe we are spending, practicing only 20%,
or maybe two hours, if we have a second hour level,
two hours, one and a half hours.
So that means, among the 24 hours,
we're practicing only two hours, and 22 hours,
we're not really practicing or doing mundane activities,
more with mundane activities,
including our sleeping or yes-ness, like that.
So that's what really the kind of,
we bring calm down to the more practical level
and reflecting of time and how we're spending,
how we're doing this.
Which is wonderful, if we practice even two hours,
one and a half hours, it's really beautiful, it's wonderful.
But there is another skill that means
the way to transform every aspect of time into practices.
That great teacher, Buddha Chakra Muni mentioned in teachings,
teachings that he told to the person,
King of Kosalas, or King of Sarasas.
He said to a great king,
"You have so many duties, jewels to do,
"and so many activities to do,
"but if you keep wanting in your heart,
"it will turn everything into the practices,
"into the dharma, dharma."
And what is that?
That is bodhicam.
What that is, again, if we say,
bodhicam, that every simple part of bodhicam is compassion.
If we have compassion in your heart,
mind, whatever activity you're performing or we're performing,
we're really transforming that into the dharma.
This is a similar statement Buddha made
to the great king of the Pasar,
Basajapur and Charsi in the teachings.
He said, "Now modern time is called koshambi,
"oh, ancient time too."
He mentioned that too.
If you keep this compassion or the bodhicam in heart,
everything is transforming.
Whole activity is transforming into the practices.
So now that means every simple part of compassion,
what is known as in the common word, good heart.
Simple way, good heart.
That good heart is not something outside
we have to get and go a far distance
or we have to be rich to get that, to have got that.
We just, it's all our treasures.
We have to activate it.
When you have the great compassion or good heart in mind,
that individual is, if you really think of everything carefully,
that person is more calm, more peaceful, more mindfulness,
more down to the earth, more beautiful common sense.
Where that all come from is from the compassion,
from the good heart.
Compassion or good heart or the bodhicata
is foundation of the entire Buddha teachings.
And compassion and the bodhicata is also nature of our mind.
And we like to get enlightenment.
Open in the Dzogchi teachings we can get enlightenment
within these lifetimes or Mahamudra teachings.
Those teachings, it's true, you can get enlightenment.
According to the teachings, you can get enlightenment
within this lifetime.
But every lack of compassion, every lack of bodhicata,
even when applying Dzogchi teachings,
apply the Mahamudra teachings, we won't go that far.
They call it again teachings.
So therefore, every lack to make more powerful,
more magnificent, more meaningful, more simplified,
and the good heart, the compassion,
bodhicata is a ground.
And we have that, we're taking the full advantage
of meaning of our these precious lives.
And also benefited to the others, benefited to ourself.
We become more kinder, more gentle, more peaceful.
This is not just a Buddha taught and we just can't
because he said, we believe in that.
We can make that again, we can witness ourself.
We need more compassion and kindness.
We are more calm and peaceful, more gentle,
more satisfied, more happiness,
really all the beautiful situations.
All this comes to show, this is a good.
This all comes by simple things, compassion.
So now, with this understanding, with great compassion,
with great loving kindness, every other great compassion
of bodhicata, bodhicata also is a great healing power.
In the teachings, it's the most powerful healing,
healing tools to heal the emotional scar,
physical scar, or troubles, or mental troubles,
as well as all this spontaneous disease.
All this really can be purified with good heart
and bodhicata, not just only purify our sickness
but it's benefited for others.
We say, we have that beautiful love and configured thought,
we filled with beautiful energy, beautiful vitality.
It will fill our beautiful immune systems,
really seething up that our immune systems,
repressing our immune systems,
that was defended all unwanted in those disease sicknesses.
This compassion is more than a hundredth ton
or a thousandth ton, more powerful than multiple vitamins.
Definitely, many levels.
Many levels.
This is our own resources.
We have all this.
Then, that way, we take full advantage
of the meaning of our precious lives.
Now, with this understanding, again,
I talked a little bit about this here in the teachings.
With those thoughts, and now, what is this?
So, now, I will move to the people, people always.
Resolve to free oneself from the oaken
of the samsara of sufferings.
And we like to go out of the samsara tabals.
Or we like to transform our samsara tabals
into the great peaceful, happiness,
and more sufferings, it becomes as blissful and comfortable.
That is what we have to do.
Again, according to the teachings,
and such as Shirovaka Yana,
in a part of the Buddha Yana thing,
samsara is full of difficulties,
tabals, lot of sufferings.
Is this true?
Samsara is the result of the cause of suffering.
Samsara is suffering truth.
Samsara is the cause of suffering truth.
That is our combination, samsara king.
They have a lot of tabals.
But according to the point of the various Mahayana,
whether it is the sutra of Mahayana,
or the Vedayana Mahayana, or causal Mahayana,
the result of Mahayana,
if you have the skill and the techniques,
samsara is not bad of suffering.
Samsara is learning ground.
And samsara is an exercise,
stadium of the bodhicata,
so that we can stand and develop
powerful tool of compassion and loving-kindness,
and then if we have that great compassion
and loving-kindness of bodhicata,
then samsara is not samsara
that always makes the difficulty of tabals.
Samsara becomes as pure as that.
For that reason,
great master Shanti Deva said, in the teaching said,
if you have the great bodhicata, bodhicata,
by the merituris of the marriage,
akumulahi merituri will make,
our physical will be strong,
and our wisdom merit will be very strong
and comfortable of the mind.
Therefore, physically comfortable and strong
by the akumulahi merit,
wisdom merit will make,
our mind is strong and comfortable,
then even you are staying for a long time in the samsara
to benefit from all others,
why that individual is a bored and tired by samsaras?
Samsara is the place where you learn, grow and develop.
Read the life story of the old great bodhisattvas
and the Buddha Shakyamuni,
because they are going through the samsara,
learn and develop all the six paramatas, one after another.
Read the enlightenment.
Then they become known as warrior,
great warrior who defeated all the troubles and suffering,
the difficulties of samsara
and one who become the leader to benefit for all living beings,
all the great chariots
that bring everyone to the enlightenment
in beautiful blessed hands.
That is what the great teacher Buddha and all the bodhisattvas.
So therefore, that does not matter.
In either way, we have to change our buttons.
Whether we like to completely give up the samsara
as sharvaka or the pati Buddha,
or we like to transform the samsara into as great nirvana
or enlightenment status.
That we have to do.
If we can live just as it is,
it's not going to do any benefit to us according to the teaching.
So therefore, what in the teaching said,
the practicing lineage is open talk
reflecting the poor renunciation of thoughts.
I listed yesterday, and of course,
you all know the poor renunciation of thoughts.
Our list again, first is precious human body,
reflecting on our own this very precious body or precious lives.
Second is a reflecting mind over the impermanence.
And the third is a reflecting of cause and effect that are inevitable.
That means the karma is inevitable.
And fourth is samsara has larger difficulties,
challenges, full of challenges or difficulties.
Those have to reflect.
What it does in the teaching said,
if you reflect those strongly and beautifully as it is,
it will make ours have more strong, more practical,
more common sense, less negative emotions,
such as ego cleanings, self-importance,
more kind and gentle suffering to our own self and to the others.
Truly, we become a more gentle person,
gentle, individual, peaceful.
Then at the same time, we will value our precious times,
value our precious lives, everything we will like.
And we become more mindfulness, more thoughtful,
and more consciousness, more alertness.
All those beautiful truths will shine naturally from our mind or from our heart
to guide and help us or guide and help others according to our capabilities.
So therefore, this four-renunciation thought,
or point that will change the mind.
What that means is change the mind.
Change the mind of the attitude of samsaras.
Change the mind of the attitude of these beautiful lives,
the precious body, precious lives.
Change the mind of the attitude of the notion of the parliament,
and change the notion of the kind of very sloppy, irregularity, careless person,
not thinking anything, and accept our own self,
kind of right now, thinking of it, not thinking of the past,
not thinking of the future, and then kind of acting randomly,
kind of as a blend of thought activities.
Those all will change by reflecting of this poor training of mind
or poor energy like thought, whatever we call it.
And this is also essence teachings of the, as I said yesterday,
teaching of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamiri,
first two noble truths.
And suffering truth, cause of suffering truth.
We can understand clearly this.
First is, the precious lives.
In here, in his own dungeon which is said right.
Difficult to obtain what that means.
This, what we are actually, we are all human beings.
According to the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamiri,
is of course Buddha's teaching.
We more than think we think only kind of this human world,
is this most important, and that's it.
There's nothing more further than that.
Or maybe we think, or there's animals.
Animals and as human beings, we can only think that.
That is our knowledge.
Our knowledge is limited.
We don't see past.
We don't see the future.
We don't see even present times, except where we're looking,
or where we're focusing.
Everything is kind of blown, and kind of liquid,
in the presumption states.
In the Buddha's teaching, in the Buddhism, Buddha's teaching,
actually there is six realms.
These six realms is all are known as samsaras.
They're all within the samsara.
Samsara is a Sanskrit word which translates into Tibet,
by each of those great translators in the eighth century.
Khurva means spinning, spinning or rotating.
That means also in Buddhism, the greatest teacher of the Buddha
named to all the sentient beings are the gods, G-O-E-R,
I think, gods, or the movers.
We're always moving.
We're always on the go.
We're always going with the yu hos, stealing the yu hos,
dragging the yu hos behind and going all the time.
One after another, that's what we are always.
We never set up, actually.
It's going.
And that really is words.
Where we're going?
And that word is, according to Buddha's teaching,
is spinning, spinning.
We go, we think we know where we're going,
but reality, we're just going, going.
We know only short distance, destination.
And then other than, we don't really know.
But still we're going, going and going.
Where are we going?
We are going in these six realms.
How are we going?
According to the greatest teacher of the Buddha's testimony,
we are going by the poles of our own deeds,
which is known as karma.
Karma is like fuel.
Fuel that is spinning us without any choice.
We are moving.
Who is creating the karma?
Nobody overloaded karma from outside soma.
Karma is one's own creations.
And unknowingly we created karmas.
Unknowingly knowing the situation of the consequences,
we created karmas.
We are moving.
With the yu-ho of the karmas,
maybe some has a bigger yu-ho,
some from a small yu-ho, but it is a yu-ho.
And it depends how the engine of our vehicle is stronger.
Sometimes even big yu-ho, we can drive quite easily.
Sometimes our engine and motor, those cylinders are not so strong,
and then we are really dragging and dragging the cars and yu-ho on the highway,
and the police are coming and those controllers are coming.
I mean, you know, you all know, even through those things.
So that's the karma.
That's just a small example of how many things are happening in our own universe,
in the perception universe, world of samsara.
So that's really how that happens.
So now we're moving, six veins, six hands.
So now in that way, now we are among the six veins,
we are in a human world, human world.
The human world, if you are born in a human world,
why we are a human world?
It's called the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
because we're born here with our karma.
Karma is not somebody pushed to us, or somebody dropped us,
or somebody bought us our own karma.
We're really born in a human world.
And of course, when we're born in a human world,
in the teaching, say, what that is karma, what karma karma that is.
The core in the teaching is good karma, good karma.
So that means we did something in the past,
we did something good karma, or to be born,
to cause to be born in a human world.
It's good karma.
So that means, since we're born in a human world,
naturally we have poor freedoms, naturally.
It comes with it automatically for freedoms.
Those are known as I'm not born in Helens,
because of my good karma.
I'm not born this time, for example, this time.
I'm not born in a humble gospel, because of my good karma.
And I'm not born in an ambulance,
rims, because of my good karma.
I'm not born in a long life, God's reigns,
because of my good karma.
And now, those three are known as three lower rims, lower rims.
And they are lower, lower than human rims.
And God's long life, God's reigns,
many times in the teaching, imagine, is in God's reigns.
But many great masters often say, it's not easy.
That is just kind of like interpretations,
but it is where those individuals who have that karma,
they can be anywhere.
Anywhere they can take the bird and become
that status of the long life.
God, what is long life, God?
In the teaching, he said, if you're born in that realm,
but that's long life, God, they don't have too much senses.
Completely kind of absorbing, indeed, kind of sleeping status.
Everything is kind of like senseless, kind of like there.
And there is no alertness, no active clarity.
So it's just a kind of like stay in that long for long time.
It's wasted time.
There's nothing.
So therefore, we should be grateful.
Happy of our past days, did that I'm not born in heaven.
I'm not born in the hungry God's hands.
I'm not born in animals.
I'm not born in the long life God's hands.
If we have no good karma, those are our destination.
These who are born in those three lower realms
of long life, God's reigns, it's not
that they designated to be born.
Because of the consequences of their garments,
they took that.
In these lower realms, those places,
what troubles do they have?
Trouble of the Aries, the hell realm place,
or the land of the hell realm is a disaster, as I said.
The political foundation of the hell realm
is a disaster, ugly, and very, very impregnable.
And suffering is the experience what they're going.
It's a disaster and a suffering, and bad, enormous.
And the duration of that, according to the teaching,
is like eons sometimes, really, so long.
They are in hell realms in the teaching.
Why?
They are so sensitive.
For example, more sensitive than our schemes.
But torment and what they're going through
in their experience of the region is so strong.
Strong.
And the pyres and all of those things
are seven or more times more powerful, more
harder than our regular pyres.
And these are just-- and then hell grows in the same thing.
And we're in the same thing.
So therefore, our good karma, something
we did past good that we can be proud, according to Buddhism,
we can be proud.
I did something really good in past.
Now I'm a beautiful human being, as human beings.
Then above that, and in being a human being,
there's for, again, human that we can fulfill freedom or happy
with them, we don't have those.
That, of course, you all know that in the teaching
that you read, it's not something I'm talking about.
And what in the teaching said?
[INAUDIBLE]
And our attitude is not completely heretical.
Heretical or kind of wrong believers.
We have beliefs, which is freedom.
And we don't have any beliefs.
Even if born in human world, we will not improve anything.
Even though we have the very beautiful fortunate things,
we born in this human world, we don't have any belief.
We will not going to do more than anything.
But we're not just that.
We believe us.
We believe.
We believe in the past, in the prison, and in the future.
That is a code in Buddhism.
That is one of the very, again, freedom.
We're not occupied by the non-freedom regimen at all.
We are kind of open-minded, freedom state.
And then we are not born as kind of like diabetics places.
Everything is just like they don't really
have any kind of good sense of what
is really happening to them or others.
They only believe what they think is the best.
Best and do that without any kind of, like,
thought of any others.
We're not.
We're more thoughtful, more kind of think of them.
And then our old senses are good.
Even then, we're born as human beings.
Even we have belief.
Even we are not kind of like just only thinking
of our own beliefs and all that thing.
But we have old-- we don't have our senses.
Then even we can't communicate.
We can't understand.
So we have really good senses.
Every day, our senses are perfect.
How lucky, how fortunate we are.
We did good things in the past.
And the next one is, the last one is,
then according to teaching of Buddhism,
Buddha's teaching, sometimes there is error.
All this kind of time will come.
There's no Buddha came.
No teaching will go at all.
Sometimes that happens.
So in that time, our error, if we're born,
if they're even we're born as part of the beautiful human
beings, even seven freedoms.
If we don't have that seven freedoms,
then we can't really understand the teaching
or have communication or the teaching will be complete.
So there's still Buddha came in the world.
Still his teachings exist.
So therefore, all this way, we have to feel happy.
Roughly our life is so precious, beautiful.
Therefore, I should feel happy and have the determination
and courage to use this for good purposes, something
good, good purposes.
And then in the teaching, we're born as women born.
It's so difficult as examples that I'm not going to talk
there now, maybe tomorrow I will talk.
But York, in the blend, total in the big oceans,
those three examples, the big ocean, big ocean, big ocean
such as the Atlanta Ocean.
There is the blind total.
And this is just an example.
It's not something that realistic that we have measured.
And on the Atlanta Ocean or Pacific Ocean,
there is floating to York, York.
That is the wind is kind of carrying from the east to west,
west to north, north to south, kind of always
is just carrying waves.
Or the wind is carrying them through the waves.
That blind total is coming out of the ocean surface
in 100 years at one time.
One time.
And this York has whole, whole, right?
York?
York.
And Y-O-L-K or Y-O-R-K. Y-K-K-E. Oh, sorry.
Y-O-K-E. York has whole.
So now, this ocean is so big.
Just so big.
There is one York.
York is floating up in the dome and south in the east and north.
And there is blind total coming out of that ocean 100 years
on the surface, kind of like pick up that.
And when coming up that total, coming up that ocean York,
in the side of the ocean, the whole of the York.
York is can be, the net of the total can be entered, entered.
That is quite kind of to comparing that how great
is our rare human birth.
Is that is even more common than obtain the birth of human
or higher ends.
You understand the example?
I help you understand.
I mean, you read this in the book.
This is just everywhere that.
What that actually means, what that means.
That tells that ocean is the metaphor of the three low realms.
How big that is.
Three low realms is so big.
Hell realm, hungry ghost realm, animal realm.
York is so small.
That is the metaphor of the higher realms or the human realms.
Human realms.
And it's moving back and forth that of York and everywhere.
That is common.
So entering that, how difficult that.
But even to obtain human birth is more difficult than entering
the net of the total, the blind net of the total
in the whole of the York.
That's what really teaching says.
I mean, you read.
I just mentioned in my English and all that things.
But you read.
Thank you very much, everyone, again.
And I'm so grateful and happy to speak
a little bit teaching of the Buddha and a reminder to each
of us and this video opportunity of this situation for us.
So really, we delegated this merit at the end.
I mean, for every level, to every means, to all, to everyone.
Thank you very much, again.
And so now we do that again about 20 minute meditation,
about 20 minute silent meditation.
Again, always I said a really good motivation
and devotion those all important.
In meditating and in practice, the realization
is not just going to come.
It's a coordinated not by intellectual,
kind of skeptical and hesitant thought.
It only comes by the understanding of the devotion
and connection and good motivation.
And we have that and realization really will come.
So those are the techniques that made the progress
of our realization well developed by those motivations.
They will open the door and bring our inner realization.